---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Oracles
---

> Bridging Data Between Off-Chain and On-Chain Systems

## What is an Oracle?

An oracle is an infrastructure layer that facilitates the querying,
verification, and authentication of external data sources, relaying this
information to the blockchain. Smart contracts rely on this information to make
informed decisions and execute their intended functionalities. Oracles serve as
the gateway between blockchain and real-world data, as blockchains are
inherently unable to access off-chain information.

## The Oracle Problem

The oracle problem arises due to the inability of blockchains to interact
directly with external systems. Blockchains are isolated networks that only rely
on data stored in their ledger for consensus. The deterministic nature of smart
contracts is a result of the narrow focus of blockchain consensus and their
ability to execute exactly as written with a higher degree of certainty than
traditional systems. Incorrect reporting of external data can lead to
devastating outcomes for on-chain applications dependent on these data feeds.

## How Switchboard Addresses the Oracle Problem

Switchboard is a multi-chain, permissionless oracle protocol designed to solve
the oracle problem by offering general-purpose data feeds and verifiable
randomness (VRF). It addresses the oracle problem through:

1. **Permissionless**: Developers can build their own data feeds, and optionally
   spin up an application-specific free-standing oracle network for their feeds,
   called an oracle queue.
2. **Customization**: Different feeds and queues can be configured with a
   variety of parameters, allowing developers to decide for themselves how to
   optimally balance decentralization, security, and speed for their own unique
   use case.
3. **Decentralization**: Developers can choose between flexible governance
   options, such as DAO governance, multisigs, privileged admins, or immutable
   definitions.

## Switchboard: Enabling Custom Oracles for Developers

Switchboard empowers developers to dictate which data they want on-chain by
enabling them to build custom data feeds or aSync functions. This level of
customization is crucial for unlocking the full potential of decentralized
applications in a dynamic and ever-changing world. By offering a permissionless
and customizable solution, Switchboard allows developers to configure data feeds
and oracle queues based on their specific requirements, ensuring the optimal
balance of decentralization, security, and speed.
